We're now going to launch an instance into a different subnet and a different availability zone.
So let's go here and we're going to choose the ap-southeast-2b availability zone and everything else is
going to be left as defaults
and I'm going to click launch.
And while that's launching Let's go down to
snapshots and we have this these snapshots now we've named them.
So we've got the data volume and the reef volume.
And what I'm going to do is I'm actually gonna create a volume from one of these snapshots.
So I'm going to copy the snapshot ID, go to volumes and create volume and I'm going to leave
the default volume type and size.
I mean I could reduce that down but that's okay.
And in this case we're going to put this in 2B and then for here I can paste in my snapshot I.D. and
I searched for and found it and we can see our label on their base of volume.
So I'm going to choose that snapshot I.D. and then click Create volume.
So we now have our additional volume here which is 100 gigabytes in size that we've just created from
our snapshot.
And that's in availability zone 2B the same as our new instance.
So what I'm going to be able to do now is attach this volume and it will come up with this instance
because it's running in the same availability zone.
If I only had an instance running in 2A we wouldn't find any options here.
So again and we're just going to leave the default and that's attached.
Now we could obviously go and log into this instance and mount the file system and log onto that directory
again but I think you get the idea we would see the same data that we had from before as we took the
snapshot after trading those files on the slash data mount point.
So we're just going to go back and terminate our instance.
Now that was just a very quick lesson just to show you how you use a snapshot to migrate an EBS volume
into another availability zone.
And that's the key.
That's what we've done there we've basically said well we want to move in and EBS volume from one AZ
to another AZ.
So how can we do that.
Well, we'll take a snapshot of the EBS volume and then we'll create a volume from that snapshot.
And what we're actually leveraging there is the fact that the snapshots are stored on S3 which
is a regional service.
So even though EBS volumes only exist in a specific availability zone, because our snapshots are
on S3
we're then able to restore the snapshot to any availability zone within the region.
So let's just terminate this instance and in the next slide what we're going to do is create an AMI
from our snapshot of the volume that we took earlier and then launch an instance from that AMI.